"""The dataset used for the research was acquired from Yelp’s  businesses and reviews data from 2017- 2019, which contained 2.8 million customers reviews for 200,000 businesses. Data could be found in https://www.kaggle.com/athoul01/predicting-yelpratings-from-review-text.

#In the scope of this project, we focused on the reviews of businesses in the restaurant category only. The investigation of the dataset includes the study of the review rating distribution, text length distribution and the contribution of useful review on the full set of data. Based on the result, we made a selection for a data subset that seems to be the most representative of the full set for further analysis. After pre-processing the data subset, we examine the distribution of top unigrams before and after removing stop words and calculate the sentiment polarity score of each version.

We applied several EDA techniques to test our hypothesis, check assumptions and choose a representative subset of the data set. The histogram of review rating distribution, (Figure Review Rating Distribution), revealed that the 5-star review, with 1,589,266 records (41.14% of total reviews), is the biggest contributor and the 2-star reviews are the least with 37.023 records (9.02% of total reviews). From the review text length distribution, (Figure Review Text Length Distribution), and bar chart of useful, (Figure The distribution of "useful"), it can be seen that 100- 199 words and the reviews, that were not marked useful by other users, were by far the highest proportions of reviews. Since the label features being used in our prediction are the review rating, we took the majority of groups and concentrate on the similarity of the shape of the diagram to form a subset of data (Figure Review Rating Distribution - Subset).

To gain better attention for the important words, a comparison between the highest frequent unigrams (single word) before and after lemmatizing and removing stop words has been made. Figure Top 20 words in review before/ after removing stop words illustrates the top 20 word counts from the dataset before and after pre-processing. It can be seen that before removing stop words, most of the top list comprises of less meaningful words such as articles (e.g. a, an, the) and preposition (e.g. to, of, in etc.). On the other hand, after the pre-processing phase, the top list has been able to show the words with better semantic richness such as food, good, love, amazing etc

Based on the result of data exploration mentioned above, the sample subset is selected by filtering the originally acquired dataset with three criteria including business category = “Restaurant”, useful = 0, and review text length in [100,199]. The selected sample subset contains 275,197 restaurant reviews with a 1-5-scaled starred rating. The sample data are cleaned and pre-processed by removing punctuation, special characters, digits and stop words. This step can help to reduce the size of data and remove the meaningless characters/words. Additionally, all words have been converted to lowercases. The lemmatization will also be applied to convert the words into their root words, reducing the number of unique words in the dataset.

"""
